submissions/Germany/anupam.krishnamurthy.md, before:

## Consent for Sharing

Do you consent to your submission being published in:
- [ Y ] Social media
- [ Y ] Blog posts
- [ Y ] Articles or books
- [ Y ] Presentations

## 🏷 Personal Information

```yaml
Contributor: Anupam Krishnamurthy
Nationality: Indian
Residence: Germany
Role: Test Automation Engineer, Quality Lead / Coach
Background: MBA -> Management Consulting -> Business Process Automation Engineer -> Test Automation Engineer
Industry: IT, Automotive, Banking
Socials: https://www.linkedin.com/in/anupam-krishnamurthy/
```

## 🇩🇪 Your Observations
Feel free to write in free-text format, but you can also follow the questions below. (don't feel limited to only these)

```yaml

I haven't worked as a quality engineering professional in India, and therefore my observations are limited to Germany. My experience 
- 2 years of management consulting for corporations across industries in Germany.
- 1.5 years of working in Daimler (parent company of Mercedes Benz) as a RPA process automation engineer, with some software testing work. 
- 4 years of working as Test Automation Engineer / Quality Coach for Bitgrip, a small services company (a digital agency in Germany), although our clients were international corporations. 

What is the characteristic of your country in terms of testing culture?:
- Testing is seen as important in principle, but neglected in practice. When budget needs to be cut, QA budget is the first to go.
- German work culture is methodical and rule based. There is an emphasis on explicit processes and documentation.
- I've seen several test managers have a tendency to create long documents ('test concepts') that are divorced from relevance and reality on the ground. 
- There is generally a resistance to change. Most resistant are unfortunately experienced German quality professionals, followed by managers and product owners. I have found developers to be actually more open than these groups to changing and upgrading testing practices. 
- Testing practices in most companies are outdated, mainly owing to resistance to change. 
- There is an over-reliance on certifications like the ISTQB as opposed to practical, real-life experience.  
- There is a massive emphasis on 'clear division of labour and responsibilities', which often hinder whole-team ownership of quality. 

Is there anything you were surprised to see anywhere in term of testing?:
- I am surprised that in several small and medium sized IT teams, most testing is still done manually in a sub-optimal manner.
- I am surprised by the contrast between quality standards in manufacturing and IT. While Germans will insist on the highest quality standards with manufactured products, they are surprisingly tolerant of sub-standard software products. 

What are the biggest strengths and weaknesses of your country?:
- Strength: 
    - Germans are conscientious. They are sincere people, who want do deliver quality work. This intention is strongly felt. 
    - Germans are open-minded. If your colleagues buy into your mission, they can turn from opponents to your strongest allies overnight. 
    - Germans are direct and are open with criticism. They speak their minds. 
    - Germans lay a strong emphasis on work-life balance. Overtime work being the exception, rather than the rule. 
- Weakness: 
    - Change resistance: It takes time and persistent effort to translate intention to action. 
    - Perfectionism: There is a resistance to wait for the perfect alternative, rather than starting with a good-enough alternative and adapting as necessary. 
```

Commit message:

Improve submission with input on langugage, precision

submissions/Germany/anupam.krishnamurthy.md, after:

## Consent for Sharing

Do you consent to your submission being published in:
- [ Y ] Social media
- [ Y ] Blog posts
- [ Y ] Articles or books
- [ Y ] Presentations

## 🏷 Personal Information

```yaml
Contributor: Anupam Krishnamurthy
Nationality: Indian
Residence: Germany
Role: Test Automation Engineer, Quality Lead / Coach
Background: MBA -> Management Consulting -> Business Process Automation Engineer -> Test Automation Engineer
Industry: IT, Automotive, Banking
Socials: https://www.linkedin.com/in/anupam-krishnamurthy/
```

## 🇩🇪 Your Observations
Feel free to write in free-text format, but you can also follow the questions below. (don't feel limited to only these)

```yaml

I haven't worked as a quality engineering professional in India, and therefore my observations are limited to Germany. My experience 
- 2 years of management consulting for corporations across industries in Germany.
- 1.5 years of working in Daimler (parent company of Mercedes Benz) as a RPA process automation engineer, with some software testing work. 
- 4 years of working as Test Automation Engineer / Quality Coach for Bitgrip, a small services company (a digital agency in Germany), although our clients were international corporations. 

What is the characteristic of your country in terms of testing culture?:
- Testing is seen as important in principle, but neglected in practice. When budget needs to be cut, QA budget is the first to go.
- German work culture is methodical and rule based. There is an emphasis on explicit processes and documentation.
- I've seen several test managers have a tendency to create long documents ('test concepts') that are divorced from relevance and reality on the ground. 
- There is generally a resistance to change. Most resistant are unfortunately experienced German quality professionals, followed by managers and product owners. I have found developers to be actually more open than these groups to changing and upgrading testing practices. 
- Testing practices in most companies are outdated, mainly owing to resistance to change. 
- There is an over-reliance on certifications like the ISTQB as opposed to practical, real-life experience.  
- There is a massive emphasis on 'clear division of labour and responsibilities', which often hinder whole-team ownership of quality. 

What is the main factor that will ease your integration into German work culture?
- I have a clear answer to this question - learning the language. While most Germans in the work environment are fluent in English, they are far more comfortable in German since they can express themselves more precisely. Therefore, anybody who doesn't speak German is automatically at a disadvantage in a German work environment. On the flipside, if you are making an attempt to learn and speak their language, Germans will be supportive and meet you halfway. I noticed my own experience in the professional context change as my German got better, and by speaking to non German speaking expats here, I can contrast how their experience in the workplace is very different. 

Is there anything you were surprised to see anywhere in term of testing?:
- I am surprised that in several small and medium sized IT teams, most testing is still done manually in a sub-optimal manner.
- I am surprised by the contrast between quality standards in manufacturing and IT. While Germans will insist on the highest quality standards with manufactured products, they are surprisingly tolerant of sub-standard software products. 

What are the biggest strengths and weaknesses of your country?:
- Strength: 
    - Germans like to be precise and explicit. They like to consider all details and exceptions thoroughly, and address these explicitly in their communication and processes. 
    - Germans are conscientious. They are sincere people, who want do deliver quality work. This intention is strongly felt. 
    - Germans are open-minded. If your colleagues buy into your mission, they can turn from opponents to your strongest allies overnight. 
    - Germans are direct and are open with criticism. They speak their minds. 
    - Germans lay a strong emphasis on work-life balance. Overtime work being the exception, rather than the rule. 
- Weakness: 
    - Change resistance: It takes time and persistent effort to translate intention to action. 
    - Perfectionism: The strength of precision casts the shadow of perfectionism. There is a resistance to wait for the perfect alternative, rather than starting with a good-enough alternative and adapting as necessary. 
```
